Add private brand check explainer (#542)
v8/v8.dev: src/features/private-brand-checks.md

---
title: 'Private brand checks a.k.a. `#foo in obj`'
author: 'Marja Hölttä ([@marjakh](https://twitter.com/marjakh))'
avatars:
  - 'marja-holtta'
date: 2021-04-12
tags:
  - ECMAScript
description: 'Private brand checks allow testing for the existence of a private field in an object.'
tweet: ''
---

The [`in` operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/in) can be used for testing whether the given object (or any object in its prototype chain) has the given property:

```javascript
const o1 = {'foo': 0};
console.log('foo' in o1); // true
const o2 = {};
console.log('foo' in o2); // false
const o3 = Object.create(o1);
console.log('foo' in o3); // true
```

The private brand checks feature extends the `in` operator to support [private class fields](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/Private_class_fields):

```javascript
class A {
  static test(obj) {
    console.log(#foo in obj);
  }
  #foo = 0;
}

A.test(new A()); // true
A.test({}); // false

class B {
  #foo = 0;
}

A.test(new B()); // false; it's not the same #foo
```

> Since private names are only available inside the class which defines them, the test must also occur inside the class, for example in a method like`static test` above.

Reviewer: Missed whitespace.
```suggestion
Since private names are only available inside the class which defines them, the test must also occur inside the class, for example in a method like `static test` above.
```

> Subclass instances inherit private fields from the parent class:

Reviewer: Nit: Clarify own-ness:
```suggestion
Subclass instances receive private fields from the parent class as own-properties:
```

```javascript
class SubA extends A {};
A.test(new SubA()); // true
```

> But creating an object with a prototype with `Object.create` or setting the prototype later (via the `__proto__` setter or `Object.setPrototypeOf`) doesn't make private fields accessible:

Reviewer: Nit: Clarify inheritance:
```suggestion
But objects created with with `Object.create` (or that have the prototype set later via the `__proto__` setter or `Object.setPrototypeOf`) doesn't receive the private fields as own-properties. Because private field lookup only works on own-properties, the `in` operator does not find these inherited fields:
```

```javascript

> const a = new A();
> A.test(Object.create(a)); // false
> let o = {};
> Object.setProrotypeOf(o, a);
> A.test(o); // false

Reviewer: Maybe add checks on the `__proto__` object, to clarify the field still exists?

```suggestion
const a = new A();
const o = Object.create(a);
A.test(o); // false, private field is inherited and not owned
A.test(o.__proto__); // true

const o2 = {};
Object.setProrotypeOf(o2, a);
A.test(o2); // false
A.test(o.__proto__); // true
```
